As you've learned,
security analysts can be
flooded with a large amount
of alerts on any given day.
How does an analyst manage
all of these alerts?
Hospital emergency
departments receive
a large number of
patients every day.
Each patient needs medical
care for a different reason,
but not all patients will
receive medical
care immediately.
This is because hospitals
have a limited
number of resources
available and must manage
their time and
energy efficiently.
They do this through a
process known as triage.
In medicine, triage
is used to categorize
patients based on the
urgency of their conditions.
For example, patients with a
life-threatening condition
such as a heart attack will
receive immediate
medical attention,
but a patient with a non-life
threatening condition like
a broken finger may have to
wait before they see a doctor.
Triage helps to manage
limited resources so
that hospital staff can
give immediate attention to
patients with the most
urgent conditions.
Triage is also used in security.
Before an alert gets escalated,
it goes through a triage
process, which prioritizes
incidents according
to their level
of importance or urgency.
Similar to hospital
emergency departments,
security teams have
limited resources
available to dedicate
to incident response.
Not all incidents are the same,
and some may involve an
urgent response.
Incidents are
triaged according to
the threat they pose to
the confidentiality,
integrity, and
availability of systems.
For example, an
incident involving
ransomware requires
immediate response.
This is because ransomware
may cause financial,
reputational, and
operational damage.
Ransomware is a
higher priority than
an incident like an employee
receiving a phishing email.
When does triage happen?
Once an incident is
detected and an alert gets
sent out, triage begins.
As a security analyst,
you'll identify the
different types of alerts,
and then prioritize them
according to urgency.
The triage process
generally looks like this.
First, you'll receive and
assess the alert to
determine if it's a
false positive and whether it's
related to an existing incident.
If it's a true positive,
you'll assign priority
on the alert based
on the organization's
policy and guidelines.
The priority level defines how
the organization's security team
will respond to the incident.
Finally, you'll
investigate the alert
and collect and
analyze any evidence
associated with the alert,
such as system logs.
As an analyst, you'll want
to ensure that you complete
a thorough analysis
so that you have
enough information to make
an informed decision
about your findings.
For example, say
that you received
an alert for a failed
user login attempt.
You'll need to add context to
your investigation to
determine if it's malicious.
You can do so by
asking questions.
Is there anything out of the
ordinary associated
with this alert?
Are there multiple
failed login attempts?
Did the login happen outside
of normal working hours?
Did the login happen
outside of the network?
These questions paint a
picture around the incident.
By adding context,
you avoid making assumptions,
which can result
in incomplete or
incorrect conclusions.
Now that we've covered
how to triage alerts,
we're ready to discuss
how to respond and
recover from an
incident. Let's go!